Yeah, so I started a company called The Ready
about 13 months ago.
For the 9 years before that, I ran a company
called Undercurrent and the arc of my life
has been a search for the most interesting
problem and I kept turning over stones and
then eventually a few years ago, I turned
over ORG design and I was like, oh that's it
That's where all of our efforts as human beings
come together.
Our ability to organize, to coordinate, to
create solutions and get things done and now
that we're facing all of these challenges,
it becomes a white hot topic for me and for
us.
I have the unique, good fortune of doing a
lot of speaking and writing and traveling,
talking to people all over the world and the
question I ask everybody is, basically I sit
down with leaders and teams both and say,
"What's driving you crazy, what is slowing
you down, what prevents you from doing the
best work of your life, what's in your way
at work," and I hear three answers remarkably
consistently no matter where I go.
No joke in the last ninety days I've heard
this from the Prince of Sweden and the head
of a non-profit in the Bay Area and it's 1)
pace of change, both internally and externally.
Just feeling like they can't keep up, they
can't process it-the meetings, the emails,
the information overload, the death by a thousand
cuts of all the other people moving laterally
and vertically into their space.
There is a pace of change challenge that we
all struggle with.
Complexity.
Complexity of scale or scaling.
Having no idea how to make sense of the machines
that we've created, how to get people to work
and coordinate in the right way, how to navigate
the functional matrix, or as I like to call
it the Rubik's cube of death and so that's
presently felt by everybody.
Even really small companies now, who are going
from fifty to five hundred employees in a
year.
Just feeling enormous complexity and then
the last one is this sort of culture of command.
The idea that somehow having culture is about
controls, predicting control, plan, hierarchical
decision making and all that sort of stuff
sort of feels like a real rigid-slowing us
down, preventing us from our potential.
When I then ask teams the follow-up question,
which is like, "What do we do to fix this,
whose fault is this, what's happening?"
I only get one of two answers.
When I ask the leaders, they say, it's the
people.
"We have the wrong people, we need different
people, our peoples attitudes suck, there's
change averse, there's change fatigue, we
need more digital people, we need more millennials,
millennials are lazy, millennials are awesome."
Then when I ask the people, they say, the
leaders.
"The leaders have got to go, the leaders suck,
the leaders don't see the future, they're
not young enough, they're not old enough,
they're not experienced enough, they're too
inexperienced, it's the leaders we have to
change."
In our actual work, in the kind of coaching
and changing of organizations and studying
how certain organizations have managed to
change and adapt over time, we've learned
that it's actually neither one.
Sure there's probably a leader or two who
could change, sure there's probably a set
of skills that might need to adjust, but by
in large, the people are not the problem.
People are chameleons, people are incredibly
sophisticated at echoing and absorbing and
interacting with a community, with an environment.
We often talk about ... we have this visual,
I don't know if we can bring it up, but we
often talk about the environment as an organizing,
operating system.
What is the OS for the organization?
If you think about-your phone has an OS, your
computer has an OS.
Microsoft, obviously understands the concept
of OS, but then you say, what is our organizational
operating system, what are the simple rules
that are so deeply embedded and so deeply
held?
The assumptions, the practices, the principles
that make up who we are.
That's the sort of unspoken, unrecognized
area and what we've done over the last year,
which has been a really cool research project,
is we've gone and talked to companies and
organizations that have bucked the trend,
that are heavily adaptive, super fast, nimble,
flexible, human, meaningful, purposeful places
and said, "What's different about you, what
would you hold up as something that is unique
about your way of working and your way of
organizing?"
Every answer we get, we kind of capture and
we just loosely start to collect and group
these things.What we found after looking at
over a hundred examples, is that they basically
all coalesced around these nine areas.
This is not a macie framework that covers
everything about how you operate, but these
seem to be the battlegrounds for the future
of work.
These are the areas where big changes are
happening.
Seismic changes are happening and you either
are winning because of what you're doing in
these areas, or you're failing or struggling,
because of what you're not doing or what you're
doing in these areas.
Basically, when we started to talk about this
concept of today and creativity, we really
started to think about, what is it at the
operating system level or a normal person
would say the cultural level that is either
inhibiting or empowering creativity.
What is it about the way we meet, about the
way we use and share information, about the
way we distribute authority or don't, about
how we talk about purpose and intent?
All that stuff, that actually is either fueling
and accelerating and empowering and creativity
or holding it back and so that will be the
subject of our breakout.
Whatever room we're in, we'll find out-will
be to probe that deeper by talking through
the areas in this framework and any other
areas of navigation that we want to cover,
to get at a few key insights where we say,
you know what, this is a nice big map, but
these are the three areas where we feel like
right now we're really missing it when it
comes to creating more creativity, more creative
hospitable work places and cultures and then
we will bring that back to the group for review
and heckle