I just want to thank all of you for being
here today and particularly thank the PopTech
and Microsoft Envisioning teams for gathering
us here.
This is really, really juicy and I'm really
appreciating what I'm learning already this
morning.
I wanted to say a word about the work that
I do.
My name is Eric Liu, I'm the founder of Citizen
University, which is a non-profit.
We're based in Seattle, but we do work all
around the United States.
Our work is fundamentally about trying to
democratize understanding of how power works
in civic life.
We've got a variety of programs that do that
and I'll describe some of them.
But I want to say actually a word in the first
place just about our world view.
And this flows in part from the conversation
we've already been participating in this morning,
and some discussion we had last night, some
of us over dinner.
I think it's really striking how much resonance
there already is between the presentations
we've heard, and one of the things I want
to name and just call out that's just a thread
among all them and is core to our world view
at Citizen University, is the ecosystemic
view of things.
Our work ... I wrote a book several years
ago called, "The Gardens of Democracy" and
the title of that book contains a bit of an
argument.
One that we've actually heard elements of
this morning and the argument is this.
That so much of the way we think about work,
the economy, community, civic life is through
the metaphor of a machine.
Right?
We're hearing [inaudible] from and others
about this kind of obsession with efficiency
and this mechanistic view of the purposes
and the operations of all the ways that we
work together and deal with one another in
public or not in isolation.
And the argument of this book was essentially
that while that metaphor of the machine is
useful in some ways, and it's illuminating,
and when you actually start paying attention
it's ubiquitous, right?
We talk about the economy as a job creation
machine, we talk about whether the Fed should
tap the brakes on growth, we talk about priming
the pump of economic growth.
All these mechanistic metaphors and in politics
as well, we talk about political machines
and we talk about the ways that we relate
to government in sort of the sense of a frustrated
consumer who's put coins in a vending machine
and then didn't get our candy bar, right?
So we kick the machine.
There is some utility to that metaphor.
But I think this morning really underscores
the ways in which that metaphor also blinds
and it limits our sense of what's actually
going on around us right now.
And that it's properly understood.
An economy, a workforce, a neighborhood, a
community, a polity, these are gardens not
machines.
They're complex adaptive systems.
They're networks that have organic life to
them, that bloom and cascade in the ways that
we're seeing images of all this morning.
And the role of the worker, the role of the
leader, the work of the manager and the work
of, certainly of the citizen, is to be a gardener.
Right?
Gardens when left entirely to themselves will
grow like gangbusters, they'll be awesome.
And a laissez-faire approach to a garden,
yields initially beautiful blooming growth.
But then when you continue to be laissez-faire,
it yields an opportunity for noxious weeds
to take root and eventually take over and
kill the garden and tip things over til they're
all dead.
Gardeners garden, gardeners weed, seed and
feed.
Right?
And I think I wanted to kind of dive into
that metaphor a little bit by way of opening
because it seems like one of the ways that
we segway from this conversation about networks
in general and networks in workplaces and
networks in a beautiful instant and yet evanescent
polity like Burning Man, in all these cases,
we're thinking ecosystemically and we're thinking
and behaving like gardeners at our best.
Right?
So that is the spirit of our work at Citizen
University.
And one of the things that [inaudible] asked
me to do here was to try to connect some of
the dots between work and civic life.
And the fundamental question before you here,
which is the future of work, and I really
like the way that Anton described this theme.
That it's not about just enterprise workplaces
and about context of work at your job, but
just what it means in fact to, as my friend
Howard Gardner at Harvard says, do good work.
Howard has launched a thing called The Good
Work Project that is looking at what is the
meaning and the essence of good work in any
domain.
Whether it's a profession, whether it's your
life as a citizen, whether it's in your life
in family or faith, what is the essence of
good work?
In our work at Citizen University, I've learned
several lessons that I wanted to share some
reflections on today about the nature of networks
and the way that networks in this day and
age are activated for civic change.
I think it goes without saying, I think we
all recognize no matter how politically or
civically engaged you might be personally,
that we live in an age of citizen power.
We live in an age of bottom up upheavals and
that's not just the politics in the United
States of the last year, it's the politics
of the United States going back at least to
2010 and the arrival of the Tea Party, Occupy
Wall Street and other such movements that
have since bloomed here.
But of course it's not just the United States,
it's the Arab Spring, it's the Maidan revolution,
it's the Umbrella revolution, it's all of
these movements in which without permissions,
without the authorization or even knowledge
of hierarchies, citizens in self-organizing,
spontaneous ways are forming networks, activating
those networks, and changing the frame of
the possible in their communities and societies.
So we live in this age.
And our work at Citizen University is about
trying to capture the essence of what it means
to exercise power in a time of bottom up upheaval
like this.
And we've learned three lessons in our work
and I want to kind of describe each of these
about what it is that makes a network particularly
effective in civic life.
The three things that I want to reflect are
in the first place mutuality, secondly moral
clarity, and then finally, imagination.
So let me just say a word about each of these
and give you a little bit of example of some
of the stuff that we're doing.
So mutuality.
I think you know those classic slides about
[inaudible] and the strength of weak ties
and you know the triads and the rest, I think
are such a great vivid reminder, not only
of the dynamics that unfold that become mappable
and visible when you do a network map, but
about the underlying pulse of social norms
that actually feed any kind of network.
And the most central of those is a spirit
of mutuality.
Right?
There is no Burning Man without mutuality.
This idea of that the gifting, for instance,
is done with this kind of unspoken sense of
reciprocal mutual response.
Right?
So at Citizen University, one of our projects
is something called the Civic Collaboratory.
And what this is, on one level, is a network.
It's a network of civic innovators drawn from
all across the United States, all different
silos of civic work, and from across the breadth
of the political spectrum.
Right?
It's folks who run the gamut from co-founders
of the Tea Party to co-creators of Black Lives
Matter, to folks who are leading advocates
among the Dreamers and undocumented immigrants
to people who are working on voting rights,
people who are working on civic tech, people
who are working on civic education, people
who are thinking about veterans and activating
veterans as civic assets here at home, people
who are thinking about civic work in all these
different ways.
And yet the reason why we created this Collaboratory
was our perspective revealed to us that relatively
few of these folks were busting out of their
silos.
That relatively few of these people in their
domains had not only opportunity but any knowledge
of opportunities to play with one another
across the lines of their different domains.
And so in 2011, we convened the first meeting
of the Civic Collaboratory.
And we learned a very interesting lesson here.
We did it kind of the old-fashioned way.
We had a big meeting, we called it actually
at a place that's Microsoft descended in a
way, and the Gates Foundation headquarters
in Seattle.
Bill Gates Sr., Microsoft Bill's father and
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, retired Supreme
Court Justice, joined us as co-conveners of
this and with two co-conveners like that everybody
we invited came right?
This great list of folks showed up, they wanted
to be in the room with ... the rumor had happened
with Bill Sr.
And Justice O'Connor.
And we had this great day and a half gathering
and during much of the gathering all these
people were meeting each other and learning
about their respective kinds of work.
Our intention as the curators of this gathering,
was to say, "Okay folks before this day ends
what are we going to do together, what are
we going to commit to doing together," right?
And at first, there was this high sense of
purpose and energy and people were like, "Yeah
what are we going to do together?"
And then as the day went on, it started sinking
in with people that wow we're coming up with
all these interesting plans of how we're going
to connect veterans and immigrant rights activists
and how we're going to get Tea Partiers to
work with people on the left, and we're going
to do all these things.
But it started to dawn on folks, I'm not getting
paid to do any of this stuff, right?
It started dawning on them that I don't have
time to follow up on any of the commitments
that I'm sort of making in front of Justice
O'Connor and Bill Sr. here.
It started dawning on folks as well that there's
some of my competitors in the room here.
I'm not sure it's totally in my self-interest
to dive in and do this stuff in this way when
other folks in the room might take advantage
of my distraction or my non-focus on my core
mission.
And so by the end of the day, being attuned
to that room, I sensed that there was this
kind of sapping of commitment.
People went through the motions still, and
went through and kind of made a list of commitments
but there was something less than fully satisfying
about that first meeting.
So, we went back after that first meeting
of the Collaboratory and we said when we gathered
it, we don't presume that there will be a
second meeting.
Right?
We don't know.
But we felt like there was enough there that
there was something to with this, but that
we needed to activate a different kind of
energy.
And what we identified was what we needed
to do was to shift the terms of self-interest
in that room.
And to really make a set of rules and a set
of norms that would unleash, that would invite
and bring into the open, a sense of mutual
self-interest.
And indeed remind folks at the end of the
day, that all self-interest is mutual self-interest.
And so in the next meeting that we did, it's
a couple months later, we devised a new format
that we called a rotating credit club.
And the rotating credit club is this very
simple format that's in some ways adapted
from processes that unfold in a lot of unbanked
immigrant communities around the United States,
where a circle of would-be entrepreneurs who
don't have access to capital or traditional
lenders, will put their savings into a pot
and then they'll take turns getting the benefit
of the entire pot in order to capitalize their
small business, their dry cleaner, their restaurant,
whatever it might be.
We adapted that format so that every single
time we meet at the Collaboratory, five or
six members of the group will take turns in
rotation.
And they'll present to the rest of the group
a project they're working on, an initiative
they're trying to launch, a challenge they're
facing.
And the rest of the group has to offer not
just commentary or critique, the rest of the
group has to make hard commitments of capital.
Social capital, ideas capital, relationship
capital, in some cases because there are funders
in the room, it's money capital, though it's
not primarily about that.
But this idea is that you will lean in and
you will make those commitments of capital
because in the best sense, what goes around
comes around.
Right?
It's going to be your turn to be in rotation
next quarter and you're going to want folks
from this very disparate network of activists
and catalysts and civic change makers to want
to lean in and commit back to you.
That's one big lesson that we've learned from
our work at Citizen University is the power
of mutuality.
The second lesson here is about moral clarity.
And I want to describe another project that
we launched actually four days after the election.
This is a project called Civic Saturdays.
We launched this project as I say, right after
the election, and what Civic Saturday is is
essentially a civic analog to church.
It's not church, it's not synagogue or mosque.
It's not a traditional faith institution or
gathering, but it is about American civic
religion, about the norms, the values, the
texts, the creed that those of us who live
in the United States have both the right and
the opportunity and the obligation to actually
inhabit and revivify by our choices and by
our deeds.
And our gatherings have the arc of a faith
gathering.
So we get together and there are, there's
song.
We sing together.
You turn to your neighbor, you talk about
a common prompt in response to a question.
There are readings of what you might think
of as civic scripture, texts from the American
tradition, well known and not well known.
There are sermons that thus far in Seattle,
I've been giving but others will be giving
as well.
And then afterwards, there's a social hour
like you might have after church or something,
which started out as just literally tea and
cookies and the rest, but has evolved organically
into sort of a self-organizing activism hour.
Right?
When we did this first one four days after
the election, it was just out of the strong
instinctive sense that there was this yearning,
this need for people to try to make sense
of this moment of upheaval.
And we thought well, on four days notice it'll
be great if 50 people show up at the basement
of this bookstore that we booked for the event.
And over 250 people came to that first one.
And [00:14:00] we realized wow, we had tapped
into something here.
And what we tapped into was not just post-election
need to make sense of things, because we've
now done these periodic gatherings every month
since then.
What we tapped into was a desire that people
had to be in a community where together they
could seek moral clarity.
Right?
And so it's one thing to have a network of
affinity and a network of shared skill or
strategy or objective in public policy, and
that is what connects Black Lives Matter to
the Dreamers to the 15 dollars an hour movement
to the Tea Party, they all have some purpose
in which they are able to kind of use that
purpose to organize in a seamless non-directed
way.
But what gives their networks life in an enduring
way is moral clarity.
Each of them has a strong moral point of view.
You may not like their point of view, you
may not agree with it at all, but there's
no ambiguity about what Black Lives Matter
stands for.
It stands for the idea that black lives ought
to matter in this country as much as non-black
life.
And that in our institutions, and in our criminal
justice system, in our education system, and
in employment, black life does not matter
as much as non-black life does.
And that is a strong moral point of view,
right?
The point of view of the Tea Party and the
successor networks that have grown out of
the Tea Party, organizations like Citizens
for Self-Governance, is similarly a point
of view that says this country was founded
to overthrow tyranny.
And that the federal government today is itself
the source of tyranny and we need to unwind
and rewind and scale back the reach and scope
of the federal government.
Again, like, dislike, agree, disagree, that's
fine.
But there's no ambiguity about the moral purpose
that's driving that network and that feeds
that network magnetically in a way that helps
it grow.
This brings me though to the third and final
element that I wanted to say a word about
and thinking about social civic networks and
the ways in which they live and thrive.
And that is this idea of imagination.
Now you've got a good dose of that in both
looking at images of and hearing talk about
the beauty of Burning Man.
But I think one essential element that is
true at a Burning Man, that's true in pick
your movement today of civic action in the
United States that's effective, and that's
certainly going to be crucial in any work
place setting where leaders like you are thinking
about how to form and activate networks that
cohere and give people a sense of purpose,
is this notion of play, of how do you awaken
a spirit of imagination and creativity.
[00:16:30] And I want to tell you about another
project of ours at Citizen University that
we launched last year called The Joy of Voting.
And this is a simple project that recognized
there used to be in the United States, a culture,
around local elections in particular, that
was about joyful, raucous, robust participation
in voting and elections.
It was about street theater, open air debates,
dueling parades, bands, bonfires, the culture
in which it wasn't just do your duty, eat
your vegetables, cast a vote, but it was about
join the club, join the party, join the tribe
and participate in public in a joyful, creative
way that expresses your ownership of the republic.
Right?
Screens, whether television initially or now
you know our other screens have pretty much
killed that culture of joyful engagement in
voting.
But our hypothesis was there's no good reason
why we couldn't rekindle that, particularly
at the local level.
And so in working with the Knight Foundation,
which as some of you know, operates in a couple
of dozen cities around the United States where
there are or used to be strong Knight [inaudible]
newspapers.
We partnered with them to catalyze Joy of
Voting projects and they're very simple projects
where in each of these cities that ran the
gamut from Akron, Philly, Wichita, Miami,
now St. Paul, Charlotte, Grand Forks, and
other places around the country, big and small,
blue and red, was we convened artists, activists,
musicians, everyday citizens, neighbors, folks
who were just engaged in the life of the community.
We came and invited them to practice imagination.
We invited them to think about what would
it look like to have a project at a small
scale, that you could create in election season
that would awaken people's sense of belonging,
that would awaken their desire to be part
of something greater than themselves and would
awaken most of all their spirit of imagination
and play.
In each of these communities, people brainstormed
ideas, they went out to their networks and
generated and harvested more ideas, and then
over the course of weeks we ultimately chose
in each of these cities, five projects and
gave them micro-grants so about thirty five,
thirty six hundred dollars.
And we seeded all of these little projects
around the country.
And last year, in what was one of the least
joyful, most grim election seasons in living
memory, we were able to spark this spirit
of imagination and creativity in civic life
in these cities.
And now we're expanding to a group of other
cities in the United States.
I tell you about this project because whether
it's about voting or it's about showing up
in other ways, when you think about what it
means to activate a network, it's not just
about mutual aid, it's not just about a sense
of moral clarity, but there has to be activating
the spirit of imagination and purposeful play.
And that is certainly true in civic life,
you think about the Women's March, you think
about all the ways in which people have been
figuring out, and the March for Science, ways
in which to create this sense of spectacle
this joyful sense that we're not getting beaten
down by the threats and menaces to our democratic
systems and institutions, we're going to revive
them by expressing the full breadth of our
humanity with spirit, purpose, play and joy.
Right?
And that is the spirit in which we've got
to operate in applying everything that we
do in one domain, in my case civic, to everything
that we do in another, perhaps in your case
the workplace.
So the final word that I want to say is this.
In thinking about networks, in thinking about
the ways that we learn from each other in
activating our networks both civic and workplace,
one of the most basic lessons that we've learned
at Citizen University and that I've tried
to express personally.
And it's actually in the book that the good
folks were good enough to put in your gift
bags, my new book "You're More Powerful than
you Think," about this age of citizen power
and how we practice citizen power, is this
simple insight.
Once you take stock the way that these images
and slides today have shown us how to take
stock, once you take stock of your network
and your network of networks and the network
capital that each of you has individually,
collectively, institutionally.
Once you have that assessment, you've made
that visual map and you've taken that accounting,
you face a pretty binary choice.
The choice is this.
Shall you hoard?
Or shall you circulate?
That's it.
In civic life today, in the United States
in this age of nearly unprecedented inequality
and concentration of wealth and opportunity,
we face this choice.
Shall you hoard the power of your network?
Or shall you circulate it?
And I'm here today just to beg of you, as
you think about how you're going to get smarter
about networks, to make a personal and collective
commitment to circulating your power.
Thank you very much.