SCOTT GUTHRIE: Let's talk about one more company
that's using technology to transform their
products.
Which is Adobe.
Adobe is one of the largest and most innovative
software companies in the world.
And over the last 3 years, they have been
working hard to transform all of their products
to deeply use and take advantage of the cloud.
And I'm really excited to announce today that
Adobe is announcing that they are adopting
Microsoft Azure as their preferred cloud platform
going forward and will be running all of their
Adobe SAS-based solutions using Azure.
And I'm really pleased to invite up here to
talk more about today's announcement the CEO of
Adobe, Shantanu Narayen, as well as the CEO
of Microsoft, Satya Nadella.
Here they are.
(Applause.)
SATYA NADELLA: Good morning.
It's fantastic to be here in Atlanta at Ignite.
And welcome my friend, Shantanu, to Ignite
and Atlanta.
SHANTANU NARAYEN: Thanks, Satya.
It's absolutely phenomenal to be here.
NADELLA: Adobe and Microsoft have had a great
partnership.
We have innovated together, we have partnered,
to really drive the success of our customers
over a variety of different technology platforms.
In fact, just two years ago I was even at
your conference talking about some of the
things we were doing on Windows and the devices
front with Adobe.
This conference today marks a big milestone
today in our partnership.
With the leading SAS services from Adobe,
your document cloud, marketing cloud as well
as your marketing cloud coming to Azure is
a massive massive milestone.
And to me it marks, I think, at the core of
it, the product transformation and business
transformation that you're leading.
So maybe, Shantanu, you want to share a little
bit about what drove this decision.
NARAYEN: Happy to, Satya.
And again, it's so wonderful to be here today.
What an incredible community here for Ignite
and here in Atlanta.
And as you pointed out, it's absolutely the
next phase in the partnership journey.
All of the innovation we've already delivered
across Surface Pro and Touch and embracing
Windows 10 as the platform of the future on
the desktop.
We've been on this incredible journey at Adobe
in the cloud-first, mobile-first environment
that you talk about in terms of how we reinvent
the company.
I think most people here still know Adobe
for everything we have done with Photoshop
and PDF.
We have completely rethought how, in the cloud,
we can reimagine the creative process as well
as document.
So the entire content workflow with our Creative
Cloud and Document Cloud.
But a few years ago, we started to think about
business transformation and digital disruption
and we felt there was an incredible opportunity
to also target marketers in terms of being
the last bastion of people for whom technology
was not brought to bear.
Sort of combining the art and science of that.
And in that journey, we created the Adobe
Marketing Cloud which is now the leader in
its category with respect to enabling all
of these enterprises to deliver a phenomenal
digital experience.
And as we thought about how we needed to evolve
all of our clouds and we thought about the
next phase of innovation for this.
I think was critical to us that we had to
think about things like global scale and what
we were doing with global scale or trust and
compliance.
But perhaps most important, things you have
talked about.
Machine learning and intelligence.
And so we're thrilled and excited to be announcing
that we are going to be delivering all of
our clouds - the Adobe Document Cloud, the
Marketing Cloud, and the Creative Cloud on
Azure and it's going to be our preferred way
of bringing all of this innovation to market.
And I think together hopefully we will be
able to leverage this entire IT ecosystem
and developers and hopefully even make a tremendous
spark for all of the partner ecosystems, systems
integrators and digital agencies as they embark
on digital transformation between the two
companies.
NADELLA: That's fantastic to hear.
Because this coming together of the intelligent
cloud with the transformative SAS applications
across Document, Creativity and Marketing
I think is a massive milestone.
One of the things that is really exciting
about our partnership today is that we go
beyond that.
We go beyond that to bring, in fact, our respective
SAS applications around business process together.
Again in support of our customer's digital
transformation.
Specifically the integration between Dynamics
365 and CRM and the Marketing Cloud which
I think is at the core of what we together
can achieve for our customers as they look
to engage customers in a very different way
going forward.
And I know you have talked to a lot of customers
and what they are trying to get done as far
as their marketing and customer engagement
goes.
And maybe you want to share a little of that.
NARAYEN: Absolutely, Satya.
You're right.
I think we both would say that SAS has completely
disrupted how enterprises are thinking about
software, but as it relates to the entire
customer journey, end to end, and building
this connected enterprise, we think it's absolutely
critical that we provide this integration
that we can between sales and marketing and
visualization.
And so, from our point of view as we think
about what you've done with Dynamics 365 and
the intelligent business workflows that you
are talking about and how you made it modular
so we can integrate that within the Marketing
Cloud.
We just think that there is an opportunity
to, out of the box, provide integration for
all of our joint customers in terms of having
one unified and integrated sales and marketing
service.
I think perhaps even more important is what
we have talked about which is, we process
23 trillion transactions a quarter as people
are moving their businesses online.
But to put that power in the hands of practitioners
and users, if we can integrate with Power
BI, then you know the power of all of this
data is actually now in the hands of our customers.
So we're very excited about this out of box
integration between our joint solutions.
NADELLA: Yeah, in fact, that richness of things
like Power BI, power apps, some of the other
new app platform tools we have like Flow and
Functions, brought together with Adobe and
Dynamics 365 is what customers can then tailor
their specific business process.
But I know one of the things that's grounded
us as we've talked about this partnership,
and where we've drawn inspiration, is actually
from customers who are already using our products.
And that's really what has given us the inspiration
to say what exactly is that out of the box
integration, how should we even think about
extensibility, the data models.
Maybe you want to talk about some of these
customers.
NARAYEN: Yeah, you know, I think there are
a number of announcements that get made.
But we have demonstrated that the deepness
of the partnership only happens when we actually
deliver product integration and I think that's
what we're most excited about.
You're right, when we talk about this customer
journey, understanding the definition of how
we jointly look at customers and lifetime
value and promotions and campaigns.
If we can standardize on the semantic data
model between our respective offerings, that
again I think enables people to out of the
box start to use these solutions to solve
their business problems and the use cases
that they have.
And as you point out, customer interest.
Already companies like Virgin Atlantic and
US Bank and VW are telling us that they want
these solutions to work well together.
And I think, ultimately, it's about delighting
these customers through this partnership.
NADELLA: Thank you so much, Shantanu.
We're really looking forward to bringing the
best in class SAS applications from Adobe
with both our intelligent cloud in Azure as
well as Dynamics 365 and ultimately really
helping everyone in the room with their digital
transformation agenda.
Thank you all very very much, and thank you
Shantanu.
NARAYEN: Thanks for having us.
(Applause.)
END