Climate change is making weather more and
more unpredictable.
We can't control mother nature, but we can
use technology to help growers understand
her moods.
The stake are high.
We have a burgeoning population growth, we
have climate change like we've never seen
before, and if we're unable to solve some
of these challenges, then, quite literally,
people will go hungry.
The Yield is an Australian AgTech business.
We focus on taking the guesswork out of growing
The purpose of The Yield is to feed the world
without wrecking the planet.
We use real-time weather data at the farm,
field, row, right down to the hotspot level.
That data then goes through processed, which
manages all this network of mesh on the farm.
And then it goes into Microsoft Azure cloud
where we apply our machine learning and we
deliver our applications that help growers
know when to plant, when to irrigate, when
to feed, when to protect it and when to harvest.
If you measure it, you can manage it and that's
something we believe in.
As part of the agricultural grown system here
in Tasmania, we are continually challenged
day in, day out by the weather.
A lot of it was just guess work.
A lot of records that we manually kept.
The Yield now steps up and it gives me those
figures instantaneously, which is fantastic.
We can now bounce back from an adverse incident
a lot quicker.
The really big problems we're trying to do
is, increase yield, reduce import costs, reduce
risk and increase environmental sustainability
of our food production systems.
So in our first product that we released in
aquaculture, we were really clear that we
were able to reduce unnecessary harvest closures
caused by rain by 30%, giving growers back
four weeks a year from which they can harvest.
And we're doing exactly the same thing in
agriculture.
Just down the road from here Houston’s farm
estimate that they save 30% of their irrigation
cost in water losses through using our technology.
I've got a son and a daughter who will hopefully
one day, come into the business so it's giving
us that certainty that I'm providing a future
for our kids and my father's grandchildren.
We have to learn to collaborate and come up
with new business models, and work out how
we're gonna solve these very big problems
and challenges together.