First, I want to say thank you for spending
your Monday morning with us.
It's a real pleasure for me to be here in
Dublin today.
It was 31 years ago in 1985 that Microsoft
got its start here in Ireland.
We were one of the first technology companies,
as you may know, to recognize that by coming
to Ireland we could not only plant our flag
in a place with great talent, but we could
work with people here to serve all of Europe.
Little did we know that when we made that
investment to put our first big data center
here in Dublin, we would also eventually become
involved in an issue that brings us back here
this week and today to launch a new conversation.
Little did we know that this data center in
Ireland would lead to litigation that would
involve a case we filed against our own government,
litigation that would be followed by many
people across Europe and around the world.
Little did we imagine that when we started
that case, it would wind its way through the
courts, literally taking us years, but little
did we know that if we persisted, we would
find, as we did this past July, that we would
actually win a case that, as Fortune Magazine
said, created not just only a good week for
Microsoft, but a great one for the cloud.
We brought that case because we thought it
involved an important principle.
We brought that case because we thought it
was important to establish that no government
through its own unilateral legal process can
reach into other people's e-mail located in
other parts of the world.
We brought that case because we thought it
was important to stand up for people globally.
And that in many ways is what we wanted to
talk about throughout Europe this week.
As a company we look at where technology is
going, and we believe that we're, in fact,
at the dawn of a new Industrial Revolution.
And that's why we think it's important before
this just continues to go forward at such
a rapid pace to ask ourselves, how do we ensure
that this cloud not only serves the fortunate
few but actually serves the world as a whole?
That's what led us to put together our best
ideas and share it in a book that we're publishing
today.
We do this not with a sense that we have all
the answers, because we know that we do not.
No one has all the answers.
But we think that there's certain tenets that
will all be served well if we can recognize
together.
The first is that as promising as all these
technologies are, the reality is that with
opportunity comes challenges.
There are challenges that we see in the world
today that are linked to globalization, and
they're also linked to technology.
Technology is creating new jobs, but automation
can challenge and even replace some traditional
jobs.
There are new challenges to privacy rights.
There are new questions about income inequality.
There are new opportunities but also challenges
for people with disabilities.
If we don't acknowledge explicitly at the
outset that this new era creates both opportunity
and challenge, the truth is we'll do less
than what we should to make the most of the
promise that lies ahead.
We in short need to ensure that we move technology
forward without leaving people behind.
And that requires that we accept a sense of
shared responsibility.
Those of us who work in the tech sector, those
of us who work in the private sector have
an important role and responsibility, as do
people across civil society, as do governments
around the world.
If we're going to come together and do what
it takes to make the most of this new era,
we need to appreciate what we each can contribute.
But we need to work together with some clear
goals.
From our perspective as a company we see three
sets of goals that I'll talk a little bit
about today.
In the book that we've published we've outlined
78 policy recommendations.
And the really good news for all of you is
I am not going to read all of them to you
this morning.
It starts with ensuring that this new era
of cloud technology relies on a trusted cloud.
As a company Satya articulated our principles
about a year ago as he said that we need to
focus on security, on privacy, on transparency,
and building a cloud that ensures that people
can rely on us to secure their compliance
with law.
It's about ensuring that the kinds of traditional
protections that we've all had, not just for
years, but for centuries for information that
is stored on paper actually persists when
we move our information to the cloud.
To make that effective, we need to do several
things societally and with governments.
We need to keep information secure.
We need technology that keeps information
secure.
We need government policy that keeps information
secure.
We need to address these problems in a way
that both acknowledges and ensures that data
can move across borders.
And there are few places in the world where
the global nature of this technology is more
apparent than here in Ireland, when you see
a company like Microsoft using our data center
not only to serve the people of Ireland but
to serve the people across Europe and in Africa
and in the Middle East.
That's why we were so focused as a company
on the development of the new Privacy Shield
between Europe and the United States.
It's why we were the first company to stand
up and say that we would certify that our
data centers would comply with the new EU
Privacy Shield, and it's why we were the first
company to then go do the architectural work
to make that certification effective Trust
has really been in the headlines for three
years now.
But as we've thought about the issues, we've
concluded that, in fact, our needs are a lot
broader than trust alone.
We need to build a cloud that's responsible
as well.
We need to build a cloud that respects and
protects human rights, even amidst the equally
important work to protect public safety.
It requires new steps that we all take together
to protect people online.
It requires new steps that we think about
the implications of a cloud-based era for
the environment and for sustainability.
That's why we as a company announced earlier
this year new principles that would guide
our work as we go forward.
We committed ourselves every year to get better
when it comes to our use of renewable energy.
We committed to be more transparent.
We shared with the world that today 44 percent
of the electricity that flows into our data
centers comes from renewable energy sources,
either solar or wind or hydro.
We committed that by 2018 that number will
cross the 50 percent threshold, and early
in the next decade it will cross the 60 percent
threshold, and we will continue to get better
and better from there.
But we need government policy to focus on
this as well.
And given the promise of artificial intelligence,
this too is an area where laws will need to
be modernized.
We need laws that promote the use of artificial
intelligence, but we need laws that recognize
the vital, ethical considerations that need
to be at the heart of how we societally move
AI forward in the future.
If we do a good job in this area, it helps
actually I think create the foundation for
the third and perhaps the most important issue
as well.
You can argue that one of the defining issues
of the year 2016 is, in fact, one of the defining
issues of our time.
How do we ensure that we can have innovation
and economic growth that is genuinely inclusive.
If one wants to have a healthy digital economy
one needs to build a learning economy.
One needs to start by investing in the skills
that the next generation of people will need
to succeed, skills like coding, fields like
computer science.
But one cannot stop with the next generation.
We live in a time when many people of all
generations are going to be called upon to
learn new skills and sometimes find new jobs
and even enter new careers.
And we need to think about how technology
and the private sector and civil society and
government can come together to make that
easier for people to pursue.
Similarly, we need to ensure that this new
technology benefits not only companies that
are older and larger, but new companies and
smaller businesses, as well.
We need to ensure that the benefits of technology
and economic growth are not confined to people
who live in the major metropolitan areas,
but that they actually do what they should,
they reduce distances and barriers for people
who are working in more rural areas.
And as we think about inclusion, as we think
about the needs of the young and old, as we
think about people in cities and in towns,
there's another vital group we need to think
about, as well.
It's people with disabilities.
Did you know that there are 1.2 billion people
in the world who have some type of disability?
There are 300 million people in the world
who are visually impaired.
There are other people who have other forms
of physical disability.
There are people who suffer from some kind
of cognitive disability.
And yet what is amazing about every one of
these people is the incredible potential they
have to do great things in their lives.
We simply must do our best work and we need
to take new steps to come together with governments
to ensure that technology advances the lives
of this vital group.
Technology can do amazing things.
I think it should inspire us to raise our
own ambition.
I think we should aspire not only to contribute
to scientific knowledge, but to find a cure,
to create a day when people who are blind
can use technology to see in new ways, when
people who cannot walk can benefit from technology
to stand on their own two feet.
Fundamentally as a company when we think about
what this fourth industrial revolution can
offer, when we think about the clear goals
that come out of creating a cloud that is
trusted and responsible and inclusive we know
this.
Progress will come not by building higher
walls, but by constructing broader bridges.
We need to construct the kinds of bridges
not only between nations, but to the future,
that will be broad enough for everyone to
move forward.
Thank you very much.