We at Microsoft support Apple and will be
filing an amicus brief to support Apple's
position in the court case next week.
And I believe that Apple is making an important
point that, in fact, connects directly with
the kinds of issues that are being considered
by this hearing today.
In the Apple case, the Justice Department
has asked a magistrate to apply language in
the All Writs Act that was passed by Congress
and written in 1911.
The leading computing device of that era is
right here in front of me. It is an adding
machine that went on sale in 1912.
Put simply, we do not believe that courts
should seek to resolve issues of 21st-century
technology with law that was written in the
era of the adding machine. We need 21st-century
laws that address 21st-century technology
issues. And we need these laws to be written
by Congress.
We, therefore, agree wholeheartedly with Apple
that the right place to bring this discussion
is here, to the House of Representatives and
the Senate so the people who are elected by
the people can make these decisions.
Well, thank you very much. Do you have any
other props? (Laughter.)
I'm out of props.
I was surprised to see that.
But, believe me, it is amazing what you can
buy on the Internet. (Laughter.)
I've heard that.
Would the gentlelady yield? What's the operating
system on that?
What is the operating system? (Laughter.)
It's called a hand crank.
I'd like to follow up because I actually very
much believe that the encryption issue should
be before Congress. We've already -- the Judiciary
Committee has started that process.
But the Justice Department alleges that this
is just one phone. And I was surprised to
hear that when we heard the district attorney
in New York saying he had 175 phones, and
then we found out there were a number of others
where we're seeking to utilize the new operating
system that the court has ordered Apple to
devise.
Do you think that this issue goes beyond that
one phone?
Well, every case, obviously, is always only
about one case, but every case, obviously,
has implications for lots of other cases.
The real concern here is, actually, the law
and the implications for the future. And the
only way to get the law right for the future
is for Congress to act.
If I can just close, Mr. Chairman. I think
-- I started with the TPP, the international
standard, and that's important because encryption
keeps us safe. It keeps people from breaking
into our data systems and causing problems
for us -- either hackers or terrorists or
enemies of our country. And the idea that
my data would have to be open to hackers in
China because of a specific case is really
what I think this is about.
And I thank you very much, Mr. Smith, for
answering.
I thank the gentlelady. We now go to the gentleman
from Pennsylvania, Mr. Marino.